--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                              |
|                    Another World: 20th Anniversary Edition                   |
|                                                                              |
|                             Complete Walkthrough                             |
|                                                                              |
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Version: 1.00
Most Recent Update: August 2020 
Written and Edited by: GuideWriter1984
E-Mail: guidewriter1984@hotmail.com

This guide – and all my others - are copyright (c)GuideWriter19894. All rights
reserved

[Version History]

Version 1.00: August 2020 – First release.

[Contents}

In order to save you having to scroll through the whole guide each time you want
to find something, I’ve included a search code for each section – just press
CTRL-F to bring up the search function, then type the code in and press enter to
jump to that section.

1. Intro (INTR)
2. About the Game (ABTG)
3. Story (STRY)
4. Controls (CNTR)
5.1. Walkthrough Intro (WLKI)
5.2. Arrival in a Strange World (ARSW)
5.3. Prison (PRIS)
5.4. Navigating the Vents (NAVV)
5.5. Escape from the Prison (ESCP)
5.6. Into the Caves (INTC)
5.7. Exploring the Caves (EXPC)
5.8. Flooding the Caves (FLTC)
5.9. Alien City (ALIC)
5.10. Flooded Caves (FLCA)
5.11. Escape from the City (ESCI)
5.12. Looking for a Way Out (LOWO)
5.13. A Friend in Need (AFIN)
5.14. Tank in the Arena (TAAR)
5.15. Bathhouse Escape (BHES)
6. Thanks/Credits (THCR)
7. Outro (OTRO)

[1. – Intro (INTR)]

Welcome to my guide for Another World: 20th Anniversary Edition – my first
walkthrough, so please be gentle with the criticism! I’ll take you through the
whole game from start to finish, and hopefully leaving nothing out (if I have,
please let me know).

Even though this was written for the most recent release, it should work with
all the other versions too – it there are any differences I haven’t noted, feel
free to tell me.

[2. About the Game (ABTG)]

Another World was originally developed by Eric Chahi and published by Delphine
Software, using rotoscoped animation – which for those who don’t know, means
filming someone doing various actions and movements, then having an animator
paint over the footage frame by frame to create realistic movement – in the same
manner that the original Prince of Persia was made.

The game was released on the Amiga and the Atari ST in 1991, the game was big
success, and was ported to almost every home computer and video game console
format under the sun at the time – and several more for the re-releases for the
15th and 20th anniversary editions – with several changes made, such as improved
graphics and sound, additional difficulty levels to make the game either easier,
harder, or exactly the same difficulty level as the original – and the case of
the iOS version, touch screen controls.

This guide was written using the 3DS version of the 20th anniversary edition,
however it should work for all versions of the game – if there are any
differences, other than the ones I have mentioned in this guide, let me know and
I’ll add them to future editions of the guide.

[3. Story (STRY)]

Another World begins as particle physicist Lester Chaykin arrives at his
laboratory one night to continue his experiment with a particle accelerator –
unfortunately, he chooses to do this on a night when there is a thunderstorm. A
lightning strike hits the building during the experiment, causing it to go
haywire, and transports Lester to a strange planet.

Alone, and stranded on a strange world, Lester is soon captured by the natives –
after escaping, he must rely on his wits, a blaster pistol, and a friendly alien
he escapes captivity with in order to survive and find a way off the planet.

[4. Controls (CNTR)]

D-pad – Walk

A – Action – pick up objects if you’re near them, pull levers, grab objects, 
        etc – depending on what the situation is.

D-pad + A – run.
B/X – Jump – run first to get longer jump.

D-pad down + A – slide kick – you’ll only use this a few times before getting 
                the gun.

A (after getting gun) – draw weapon.

Ax2 (after getting gun) – fire weapon – keeping pressing to keep firing.

Hold A for short time (after getting gun) – create a shield to defend against 
                laser shots – superblasts will 
                destroy it however, as will being 
                shot enough.

Hold A for longer time (after getting gun) – fire a superblast that can 
                destroy shields and enemies – 
                this also works on you, however.

Y – toggle between original and HD remastered graphics – if you prefer the 
        original style to the new one.

Start – pause.

[5.1. Walkthrough Intro (WLKI)]

Time to get down to business – the walkthrough itself. I’ll go from start to
finish, telling you how to make your way through this beautiful, sometimes
difficult game, and how to make it past the most challenging parts.

One note on saving – the game uses a checkpoint system, where each time you pass
a checkpoint, your progress is recorded, and you will restart from the last
checkpoint you passed if you die – and if you have to quit and come back later,
you can chooses which checkpoint to restart from (at least on the 3DS version).

On some versions, the checkpoint system has been replaced by a password system –
if anyone can provide more information on this system, along with the passwords
themselves, please let me know – I’ll add them to a future update.

The game opens with Lester arriving at his laboratory at night to continue his
experiement – unfortunately at a crucial moment, lightning strikes the building,
causing the experiment to go haywire, and transport Lester somewhere else –
worse, he’s now underwater! Seems there’s only one way to go...

[5.2. Arrival in a Strange World (ARSW)]

As you start this section, you’ll pass a CHECKPOINT.

As soon as you gain control, start swimming up (just press up on the d-pad) –
you have to be quick, as there’s a tentacle monster at the bottom of the pool of
water, and if take too long to reach the surface, it will rise up and eat
Lester.

Once you surface, you’ll find yourself in... well, wherever you are, it isn’t
Earth. Move right to the next screen quickly – the monster in the pool will keep
rising, and it can grab Lester and eat him if you don’t exit the screen before
it reaches the surface (you’ll notice another creature in the background –
you’ll be meeting him properly soon).

On the next screen, there are several worms crawling along the floor – if they
touch you, they’ll bite and kill you instantly. Use the slide kick to kill them
when they close enough. Move right to the next screen.

CHECKPOINT

More worms are on this screen – kill them in the same way, and head right.
The next screen will seem empty at first, but if you keep walking right, you’ll
be ambushed by the monster you saw on the first screen! Quickly run left,
through the last few screens, past the pool where you arrived, and onto the
screen to the left of it – you’ll see a cliff edge with a hanging vine. Run up
to the edge of the cliff, grab the vine (press up), and you’ll swing back right.
The creature is still chasing you, so run back right until you arrive on the
screen where the chase started – you’ll meet the natives of the planet – they’ll
stop the monster, but unfortunately for Lester, they don’t take kindly to
outsiders...

[5.3. Prison (PRIS)]

CHECKPOINT

You start out in a cage, along with another prisoner. To escape, you need to
swing the cage – do this by pressing either left or right (doesn’t matter which)
to cause the cage to start swinging, then press the opposite direction to make
it swing that way – keep doing this to make the cage swing further and faster,
until it breaks off the branch holding it up, and smashes on the ground.

Lester and the alien emerge unscathed, and the alien, grateful to you for the
escape, helps you throughout the rest of the game – now you have an ally, you
might be able to escape!

CHECKPOINT

First things first, pick up the pistol lying on the ground by the stunned guard
– now you have a weapon, but be careful – the gun doesn’t have unlimited ammo,
and the guards are also armed.

Follow the alien right two screens, and shoot the guard quickly before he shoots
you.

Head right again, shooting more guards along the way – use the shields if you
have to (press A to draw the weapon, then hold A down for a short time to make a
shield – be sure to poke the gun out of your shield to avoid shooting it
yourself).

CHECKPOINT

Keep walking right you get to a door – your new alien friend will open it. Head
right again until you both get onto an elevator – go all the way down to the
bottom. Head left once you get there, and shoot the power source on the wall
(you know you’ve done it when the blue flashing power line goes black). Get back
on the elevator, and head up one floor.

Go left and use a Super Blast to destroy the door (Draw the gun, then hold A
down until the gun makes a ball of energy). This next section needs to be down
quickly – run left to the teleporter, press down to be taken to the lower
section, run left to the next screen, go into next teleporter, press up to be
taken to upper section, and go left.

You’ll need to wait for your new friend to arrive. When he does, he’ll open a
panel in the floor, drop down it into the ventilation shafts – unfortunately,
you’ll have to leave him behind to escape...

[5.4. Navigating the Vents (NAVV)]

CHECKPOINT

You drop into the ventilation system, away from the guards but leaving your new
friend at their mercy – don’t worry, he’ll be fine.

Roll to the left, towards the gas steaming out into the vent. Roll carefully up
to where the gas is, then stop. Wait for it to stop steaming, then quickly roll
past that point. Keep rolling left until you reach a vertical shaft – drop down
it.

Roll right – again, there is more gas in this shaft, so be careful – follow the
same procedure as before to get past it. Carry on rolling, and drop down the
vertical shaft at the end.

Edge right along the next shaft, until you the gas burst waiting for you. Move
quickly past it when you can, as before. Drop down the vertical shaft at the
end.

Roll to the left along the shaft at the bottom, drop down, roll to the right,
and drop down the hole. You’ve now escaped the vents, but you still have to make
it out of the prison...

[5.5. Escape From the Prison (ESCP)]

CHECKPOINT

You drop out of the hole into another area of the prison – fortunately,
everything is quiet right now.

First things first, head to the left into a strange looking room – this is a
recharge room that will give your gun more energy so you can use it again.

After the recharge, go right and use a charge shot to destroy the doors in the
way. Head right again through the empty corridor until you come across a guard –
shoot him quickly before he shoots you.

Head back left to the recharge room, then run back right and head outside – keep
going until you reach a collapsed bridge – obviously, you’re not getting out
that way, so you’ll need to find another route.

In fact, the other way does involve the bridge – go right up to the edge until
Lester has his feet hanging over – be careful because if you go too far, you
fall off and die. Once you’re in the right position, jump.

If you’ve done this right, you’ll fall down to a lower level. Charge-shoot the
cliff face to the right, and head inside – you’ve made it out of the prison, but
you still a way to go before you escape...

[5.6. Into the Caves (INTC)]

CHECKPOINT

Having escaped the prison, you now enter a cave – but don’t think you’re out of
danger yet.

As you enter, drop into the pit on the right. Once, you reach the bottom, keep
heading right, dropping down more pits until you reach a pile of bones.

CHECKPONT

There will be some spikes to the right – jump to avoid them, and continue
heading right. Run through the falling boulders on the next screen, then stop.
On the next screen, wait until five boulders have fallen, then run right to
reach the next screen. 

Run past the falling boulders – you will have to wait between falls – then
proceed to the next screen.

CHECKPOINT

There will be some strange holes on the floor in the next screen – avoid these,
as they are floor maulers that will suck you in if you step on them. You will
also see vines dangling from the ceiling – these are stranglers that will kill
you too if they grab you. Jump past the floor maulers, and use a superblast on
the stranglers. Head to the next screen.

You will encounter more stranglers and floor maulers as you make your way
through the next few screens – same procedure as before each time.

Eventually, you will reach a screen where your way forward is blocked by a wall.
Superblast the wall – it won’t do anything right away, but it is needed to
proceed later. For now, you’ll have to head back the way you came...

[5.7. Exploring the Caves (EXPC)]

CHECKPOINT

Head back to the left, jumping over the floor maulers along the way. On the next
screen, superblast the stranglers on the celing, then use a running jump over
the two maulers on the floor, then quickly jump over the third one before the
stranglers come back.

Keep going, jumping past more maulers and shooting stranglers – remember to be
quick so you don’t get caught by either.

CHECKPOINT

Jump past the maulers, and go up the slope on the next screen. Continue going
up, but just before you leave, turn around and shoot the red flying creature.
Proceed to the next screen, where you’ll have to use the stalactites to cross –
jump to first one, then climb to the top. Jump to the next one, and the next,
and you’ll see a strangler in the way – fortunately, the flying creature will
come in and be caught in it, allowing you to continue. Jump across the remaining
stalactites until you reach the last one. Climb to the top and jump off to the
left to land on the rock on the next screen. You should be back near when you
entered the caves, but you’re not out just yet...

[5.8. Flooding the Caves (FLTC)]

CHECKPOINT

Drop off the left edge of the rock. Turn around, and superblast the base to
cause the rock to tilt over to the left. Run up the rock, and continue right.

You’ll come to a screen with pits on it – jump over the first pit, then do the
same for the second pit. Proceed to the next screen, where you have to leap over
another pit, then head to the next screen.

CHECKPOINT

Stay on the left edge of the screen here – you’ll need to run fast in a minute,
and having a head start helps. Superblast the thin rock – this will cause the
water to start flooding the caves, so run right straight away!

As you run, you’ll need to jump over the pits again – you must be quick, and on
the screen with two pits leap over them one after another straight away, so
don’t hang around!
You’ll eventually reach a dead end with a platform – the water will cause the
platform to rise, so get on top of it to be taken to the top. Go right, when you
reach the barrier, superblast it, and continue right two screens. You’re out of
the caves, but not out of trouble...

[5.9. Alien City (ALIC)]

CHECKPOINT

As you enter this new area, you’ll see your alien friend below you, crawling
through the vents – don’t worry, he’ll be fine – you’ll meet up with him again
later. For now, go right, and go down the stairs.

You’ll come across a second set of stairs – jump over them for now, and keep
moving right to the next screen, where you’ll spot a guard behind a door. To get
rid of him, walk towards the door. When you get close, it will open, but you
need to stop just before that. Make a shield, and walk forwards to make the door
open. The guard will start rolling grenades – go back to make the door close
again, and the grenades will bounce back on the guard.

Afterwards, superblast the barrier and the door, and go right two screens.
You’ll find a dome with three globes inside, and a slit – look at the globes to
see the reflection of a guard on the lower level. When you see it, shoot the
globe when the guard stops to knock him out.

Go back left – you’ll come across a teleporter leading to an upper level that
you passed before – use it this time to find a recharge area – use it to
recharge the pistol. Go back down, and continue left until you reach the stairs
you jumped over before – this time, head down them, and go down in the
teleporter at the bottom.

Fire a shot to the left, and run to the right – you’ll be grabbed a guard and
drop the pistol – kick him (press A) to make him drop you and run left to
reclaim the pistol – fire at the guard to take care of him.

Run left two screens and head up the stairs. You should find yourself level with
the chain holding up a chandelier. Shoot the chain to make the chandelier drop,
and go right two screens.

CHECKPOINT

Now you’ll be involved in a firefight – use shields on both sides to defend
yourself against the guards – remember to stick the pistol out of the shield to
fire. Use superblasts to destroy the shields protecting the guards, then regular
shots to kill them. Once all the guards are dead, go right to find a pool of
water. Time to explore the caves again, in a new way...

[5.10. Flooded Caves (FLCA)]

CHECKPOINT

Drop into the pool of water, and swim down to the bottom. Head left two screens
– move quickly, because you can’t stay underwater for very long.

Beware of the mauler – yes, they are still active. Head up the left-hand
passage, but be careful of the strong current to the left – you don’t want to
get sucked in! At the top, you’ll find an air pocket – use it to regain air,
then dive back down. Head down two screens – again, be careful of the current –
on the new screen, you’ll see an area of dry land – head there, and get out.
Jump over the maulers, and head right.

You’ll see some power lines here – shoot them to deactivate the power, and head
back to the left. Jump over the maulers again, and get back in the water. Head
back up the air pocket again, and restore your air. Head down again, and swim
right two screens, and back up to the pool you started this section in. Get out
on the right-hand side. Time to find a way out of the city...

[5.11. Escape From the City (ESCI)]

CHECKPOINT

Head right, past the guard you knocked out earlier. (N.B. – if you’ve quit the
game for any reason and returned, the guard will still be up and about – you’ll
need to go back to the room with the dome and the three globes to knock him out
again – you’ll also need to go back to the area where you shot the chandeliers
chain and repeat that process.)

CHECKPOINT

You’ll come to a hole – drop into it, and superblast the door to the right. Run
right until you find your way forward blocked by bars. There should be a hole in
the ceiling – stand underneath it, make shields to your left and poke the gun
through to fight the guards until your alien friend comes along and pulls you up
– looks like luck is still on your side...

[5.12. Looking For a Way Out (LOWO)]

CHECKPOINT

You’ll be pulled up into a new area – go left until you’re offscreen but still
on the same screen, then run two screens to the right. As you run, you’ll see
your alien friend fighting the guards – don’t worry, he can fight them off.

Go left into the building – they’ll be a shield in there – run to it, and poke
the gun through to shoot the guard, and reunite with your alien friend. Run two
screens right, until you reach the edge of the chasm.

CHECKPOINT

Your alien friend will throw you across, but when he tries to jump he gets stuck
– he’ll be fine for now, but you need to find a way to help him. Start by
jumping down to the left, and then through an awning on the screen below,
before you land in corridor to the left.

You’ll have to fight off some more guards here – same strategy as before, use
shields to defend yourself, superblasts to destroy enemy shields, then normal
shots to kill the guards. Once they’re all dead, run left two screens – time to
find a way of helping your stranded friend...

[5.13. A Friend in Need (AFIN)]

CHECKPOINT

Run left to the next screen – point the gun at the alien, but DO NOT SHOOT. The
alarm will be raised, so go back right, and run up the stairs – jump to the
right, and make a shield to the left. Superblast the enemy barrier, and wait
until the alien rolls five grenades – you’ll find out why in a minute. Once the
grenades have been rolled, shoot the alien, head left, and go down in the
teleporter.

Quickly superblast the shield down here, and shoot the alien (he shoots the
door, and then you shoot him – you need to be quick). Go down in the teleporter
to the point where the electricity is flowing from – shoot it, and go back up.
Go back to the teleporter on the left, and go up again. Go right down the
stairs.

Now you see why you had to let the alien roll the grenades – they’ve made a hole
in the floor, through which you can drop down and escape, so do so.

CHECKPOINT

Once you’ve dropped into the new area, go right, across the laser grid. On the
other side, make a shield and walk to the edge of the screen. Move carefully to
the next screen – there is a hole there that if you will fall into if you rush.
Jump over it, walk up the lever, and pull it.

Go back to the left, and this time drop down into the pit. You’ll find the place
in uproar as the cages down here are now open, and the guards are trying to
subdue the beasts. Ignore all the chaos around you, and run right three screens.

CHECKPOINT

You’ll find a teleporter here, go up in it, and walk left. You’re now underneath
where your alien friend is hanging onto the ledge. Walk left to extend the
bridge. Your alien friend will drop down, and heads to the right. Follow him,
and go up into the teleporter after he does. In the new area, go right down the
stairs and get into the vehicle, which rolls forward until it comes to stop in
the middle of an arena...

[5.14. Tank in the Arena (TAAR)]

CHECKPOINT

As the tank comes to a stop in the middle of the arena, the upper-left corner of
the screen will show the control panel – you need to push the right buttons in
order to escape.

Start by pushing the button at the bottom of the screen – this will cause other
buttons to light up. Press the lower left one. Six more buttons will light up.
Push the top four ones, and a white button will start flashing – press that one
to eject. You have to be fairly fast, but it’s not that tough. Once you press
the white button, the escape capsules will be ejected, causing Lester and his
alien friend to fly out of the tank, and into a new area...

[5.15. Bathhouse Escape (BHES)]

CHECKPOINT

The capsule crashes into a bathhouse, causing the patrons to scatter. After
getting out, run to the right. On the next screen, you’ll have to fight more
guards – as before, use shields to defend yourself, superblasts for the enemy
shields, and regular blasts for the guards themselves. Once they are all dead,
continue running right.

Your alien friend appears – continue running right until you fall down a hole –
you’ll be rescued, but unfortunately this isn’t your friend, but another one of
the guards looking to exact some revenge for killing his friends.

After you’ve been beaten up, crawl to the right to the levers. When the guard is
in the centre of the screen, pull two levers to disintegrate him, and crawl to
the left to the centre of the screen yourself to be transported to the roof.

There’s another CHECKPOINT here, but that doesn’t matter, because you’ve beaten
the game!

CONGRATULATIONS!!!

[6. Thanks/Credits (THCR)]

Well, the guide is almost at an end, but I do have a few people to thank:

Eric Chahi – for making the game in the first place.

Delphine Software – for publishing the game.

Digital Lounge – for releasing the 20th anniversary version.

www.gamefaqs.com - for being the best site for video game guides anywhere on
        the internet.

Jeff “CJayC” Veasey – for creating gameFAQS in the first place.

All of the fans – for reading this guide – hope it helps!

And now, the boring but necessary legal stuff:

This guide is written by me, GuideWriter1984, and is copyright
(C)GuideWriter1984. You may not reprint or copy this guide except for personal
use. Any unauthorized reprinting of this guide is a violation of copyright law,
and will be prosecuted.

Currently, only www.gamefaqs.com has permission to host this guide – if you wish
to host it on your site, or reprint anything you see in here, please contact me
at the address below – be advised however you will have to take care of updating
the guide yourself – I don’t have time to send updates out to hundreds of
people. The most recent version can always be found on GameFAQS.

If you wish to contact me about hosting the guide, or if you have anything you
wish to add, or if you spot a mistake, please let me know at:
guidewriter1984@hotmail.com.

[7. Outro (OTRO)]

Well – that’s it! The guide is done, and I hope it helped! If you have any
questions, comments, or you’ve spotted something I’ve missed or got wrong,
please let me know – I’ll be sure to update the guide, and to acknowledge you
for your contribution.

Until next time – happy gaming!

END OF GUIDE
